Ever since Dodge began building their own cars in 1914, the company also offered light truck models. Initially, these were largely based on the existing passenger cars, 
but eventually gained their own chassis and body designs as the market matured. During the 1930s and 1940s, light- and medium-duty models were offered at first, then a 
heavy-duty range was added. The very large, new Warren Truck Assembly plant was built in Michigan, just north of Detroit, and opened in 1938, producing Dodge trucks ever since.

In 1936, Dodge's light, car-based trucks were crucially redesigned—not only receiving a new "Fore-Point" (similar to Cab Forward) design of the front side and 
cab—but especially, the old car frames were dropped and for the first time replaced by modern, truck-style chassis, with side rails welded to the cross members.[58] These welded 
frames were from here on introduced on half-ton to one-ton rated trucks, expanding Dodge into a heavier truck market segment than before.

In 1939 again, Dodge presented a completely redesigned line of pickups and trucks, with streamlined new, 'art-deco' front sheetmetal styling. Introducing the concept 
of "Job-Rated", Dodge tried to offer customers the truck that fit every job they were buying it for.[58] From the 1939 'Job-Rated' trucks onwards, Dodge's light and medium trucks were 
built in its 'Mound Road" plant in Warren, Michigan.

Following World War II and the successful application of four-wheel drive to the truck line, Dodge introduced a civilian version that it called the Power Wagon. At first based almost exactly 
on the military-type design, variants of the standard truck line were eventually given 4WD and the same "Power Wagon" name.

Dodge was among the first to introduce car-like features to its trucks, adding the plush Adventurer package during the 1960s and offering sedan-like space in its 
Club Cab bodies of the 1970s. Declining sales and increased competition during the 1970s eventually forced the company to drop its medium- and heavy-duty models, an arena the company has 
only recently begun to reenter.

Dodge introduced what they called the "Adult Toys" line to boost its truck sales in the late 1970s, starting off with the limited edition Lil' Red Express 
pickup (featuring, a 360 c.i. police interceptor engine and visible big rig-style exhaust stacks). Later came the more widely available Warlock. Other "Adult Toys" 
from Dodge included the "Macho Power Wagon" and "Street Van".

As part of a general decline in the commercial vehicle field during the 1970s, Dodge eliminated their LCF Series heavy-duty trucks in 1975, along with the Bighorn and 
medium-duty D-Series trucks, and affiliated S Series school buses were dropped in 1978. On the other hand, Dodge produced several thousand pickups for the United States 
Military under the CUCV program from the late 1970s into the early 1980s.


1989 Dodge Ram pickup
Continuing financial problems meant that even Dodge's light-duty models – renamed as the Ram Pickup line for 1981 – were carried over with the most minimal of 
updates until 1993. Two things helped to revitalize Dodge's fortunes during this time. One was the introduction of Cummins' powerful and reliable B Series turbo-diesel 
engine as an option for 1989. This innovation raised Dodge's profile among consumers who needed power for towing or large loads. The second was a class-exclusive V8 engine option 
for the mid-sized Dakota pickup.

Dodge introduced the Ram's all-new "big-rig" styling treatment for 1994. Besides its instantly polarizing looks, exposure was also gained by usage of the new truck on the hit TV 
show Walker, Texas Ranger starring Chuck Norris. The new Ram also featured a totally new interior with a console box big enough to hold a laptop computer, and ventilation and radio 
controls that were designed to be easily used even with gloves on. A V10 engine derived from that used in the Viper sports car was also new, and the previously offered Cummins 
turbodiesel remained available. The smaller Dakota was redesigned for 1997 using the big rig styling, thus giving Dodge trucks a definitive "face" that set them apart from the competition.

The Ram was redesigned again for 2002, and the Dakota in 2005, and was basically an evolution of the original, but adding the Hemi V8 engine to the list of available options, 
due to the revival of the legendary Chrysler Hemi V8 engine. New medium duty chassis cab models were introduced for 2007 with standard Cummins turbodiesel power as a way of gradually 
getting Dodge back into the business truck market again.

For a time during the 1980s, Dodge imported a line of small pickups from Mitsubishi, known as the D50, or later the Ram 50 and were carried on as a stopgap until the Dakota's sales 
eventually made the imported trucks irrelevant. Reversing the role, Mitsubishi has more recently purchased Dakota pickups from Dodge and restyled them into their own 
Raider line for sale in North America.